Updated: March 20, 2021

Table of Contents

1 Introduction
    1.1 Features
    1.2 Requirements
        1.2.1 Partially Tested
2 Configuration
    2.1 configs/config.php
    2.2 Administration Editor
3 Tutorial
    3.1 Adding a file
    3.2 Adding a user
    3.3 Authorizing a file
    3.4 Checking out a file
4 Credits


1 Introduction

OpenDocMan is a full featured Web-based document management
system designed to conform to ISO 17025/IEC. It features
automatic installation, file expiration, multiple version
handling, file check-in/out, departmental access control,
file moderation, fine grained user access control, email
notification and a great search function. Written in PHP,
and utilizing MySQL for the backend, this project is useful
for any company looking to keep their documentation in a
centralized repository.

1.1 Features

1. Automatic Installation - Automatically install the application
  or upgrade your current version

2. Check-in and Check-out files - This provides file locking
  so that no two persons can update the same file at the
  same time

3. Search Engine - Keyword search helps locate documents quickly

4. Multiple Users, Departments, and Categories - The system
  allows for an unlimited number of these elements

5. File Moderation - Allows for departmental "reviewers"
  to authorize or decline files for publication to the repository.
  Can be turned off.

6. Email Notification - The system has a built in email notification
  system for file authorization process

7. Fine Grained Access - Ability to control read/write/admin/forbidden
  permissions for individual files based on users or groups
  or both.

8. File History - Provides a history of actions taken upon
  a file

9. Admin and Root users - Each installation can have any number
  of "admin" users, who can create users, categories, etc.. One "root"
  user can do all.

10. Multiple Document Versions - Instead of overwriting a document
  when a new version is added, the old versions are kept,
  so there is a traceable change path.

11. Archiving function for deleted files - Files that are deleted
  are now put into an "archive"
  state and can be left there, un-archived, or permanently
  deleted.

12. Bookmark-able URLs - You can bookmark a page in OpenDocMan
  and email it to a co-worker, etc..

13. Breadcrumb Navigation - As you navigate through the site,
  breadcrumb links are generated to aid in backward navigation.

14. File Expiration - Files can be set to automatically expire
  after a definable period. The expiration action can be
  one of either Remove from file list until renewed, Show
  in file list but locked, Send email to reviewer
  only, or Do Nothing.

2 Configuration

2.1 Configuration values

Most of the configuration for OpenDocMan is controlled by the Admin->Edit Settings page.

Below are some of the configurable options:

* dataDir - Location of file repository. This should ideally
  be outside the Web server root. Make sure the server has
  permissions to read/write files in this folder!
  
* demo - This setting is for a demo installation, where random
  people will be all logging in as the same username/password
  like 'demo/demo'.

* authen - Future setting to control other authentication
  methods. Currently only MySQL and web-based kerberos authentication
  is supported.

* base_url - Set this to the url of the site (no ending slash)

* title - This is the browser window title and be anything
  you want (ex. My Company Document Management System)

* site_mail - The email address of the administrator of this
  site. Users will be told to contact this person if they
  encounter errors.

* root_id - This variable sets the root id. It
  must be set to one of the current user_id's of opendocman.
  The root user will be able to access all files and have
  authority for everything. (ex. 1)

* revision_expiration [integer]- Period in days that files
  will expire.

* file_expired_action [1,2,3,4] - Action to take on files
  that expire.

* authorization [On, Off] - Turn file moderation on or off.


* theme [default="default"] - which theme to use? Smarty-based
  themes are located in templates/ folder. Look at default for example.
  To add a new one just create a new theme folder in templates/ 
  with header.tpl and footer.tpl files. Global variables are 
  added to smarty as $g_VARIABLENAME.

* allow_signup - This option determines whether or not to display
  the "Signup" link on the login page to allow users to self-register.

2.2 Administration Editor

When a user is set up as an "admin",
they will see an admin menu in the upper right while they
are logged in. There are options for User, Category, Department,
and File Management under this menu item.

3 Tutorial

3.1 Adding a file

1. Click on the "Add"
  icon in the menu area

2. Click on the "Browse"
  button and select the file to upload

3. Choose a category for the file. This will be used during
  file searches to help narrow the search result.

4. Setup the default departmental permissions. You may set
  up individual departments with different settings, set
  all departments to the same setting, and/or select default
  permissions for any unset department. The program will
  remember your settings as you go, so as you select each
  department, the current permission will show. 

5. Enter a description. This will be used you can go back
  to set department and alter the setting and will display
  in the main file list.

6. Add any comments necessary for users of the file.

7. Set specific user permissions, if any. You may shift-click,
  ctrl-click, or click on any of the user names in any of
  the columns to specify certain rights to certain users
  of the file. 

8. Click on "Add Document"

9. If you have file moderation turned on, you will now have
  to authorize the file before it is available for viewing.
  If file moderation is turned off, you should see the file
  in the main file list now.

3.2 Adding a user

3.3 Authorizing a file

3.4 Checking out a file

4 Credits

Stephen Lawrence Jr. - Project Lead/Programmer

Many others as noted throughout the codebase.

Originally inspired by an article called cracking the vault.

